Add Watson Integration (#983)
Avaiga/taipy-doc: docs/tutorials/integration/6_ibm_watson_studio/index.md

---
title: Integrating Watson Studio
category: integration
data-keywords: scenario task
short-description: A guide to integrate Watson Studio with Taipy scenarios.
img: 6_ibm_watson_studio/images/illustration_Waston.png
---

Integrating Taipy with IBM Watson Studio is a great way to build user-centric applications. 

> Taipy GUIs and SDM (Scenario and Data Management) will transform your Watson Studio jobs/models 

Reviewer: Watson provides the task orchestration and the data integration, right? SO Taipy brings only GUI and what if analysis. Am I correct?

```suggestion
Taipy capabilities, in particular the GUIs and the what-if analysis, will transform your Watson Studio jobs/models 
```

**Requirements:**

- An IBM Watson Studio Workspace.

**1 - Create a Watson Studio Notebook**

- **Navigate to Project:** In Watson Studio, navigate to the project where you want to 
create the notebook.

- **Create a Notebook:** Click on the "Assets" tab, then select "Add to project" and choose 
"Notebook."

- **Define Notebook Details:** Enter a name for your notebook, choose the language 
(e.g., Python, R, or Scala), and select the runtime environment you want to use.

**2 - Define Watson Studio Job Logic**

- **Create the Environment**: Go to the "Environments" section to create a runtime 
environment with the packages required by your code.

- **Write Code:** In the notebook, write the code that defines the logic of your 
Watson Studio job. This code can include data processing, analysis, or any other tasks you 
need to perform.

Here is an example of a Watson Studio Notebook where parameters are passed to the job 
and results are then retrieved:

```python
import pandas as pd

# Get the parameter values
param1 = os.getenv("param1")
param2 = os.getenv("param2")

# Use the parameter values in your code if you like
print("Parameter 1:", param1)
print("Parameter 2:", param2)

> def dummy(param1, param2):

Reviewer: This use case is not real. It is meant to be didactic to explain how to pass parameters. Right?

So what about explaining how to pass as many params as we want?

```suggestion
def dummy(*params):
```

Author: I don't know. I don't know how to use this kind of annotation, to be honest. I wanted to have a function based on Vincent's suggestion as he didn't understand why we had *param1* and *param2* in the notebook

and here to [create the Bearer Token from the API Key](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-iamtoken_from_apikey).
- *WATSON_ENDPOINT*: The API endpoint of IBM Watson Studio. It depends on your location. 
For example: `"https://api.eu-de.dataplatform.cloud.ibm.com"`
- *PROJECT_ID*: Your Watson Studio project ID. You can find it in the IBM Watson Studio URL.

This *predict()* function is usable by Taipy inside a scenario. A potential 
integration into the configuration is as follows:

```python
from taipy import Config

params_cfg = Config.configure_data_node("params",
                                        default_data={"param1": "value1",
                                                      "param2": "value2"})

results_cfg = Config.configure_data_node("result")

task_watson_studio_cfg = Config.configure_task("watson_studio",
                                               input=[params_cfg],
                                               function=predict,
                                               output=[results_cfg])

scenario_cfg = Config.configure_scenario("scenario", task_config=[task_watson_studio_cfg])
```

> Now that the scenario is configured, it can be created and executed to retrieve the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the scenario is configured, it can be instantiated and executed to retrieve the 
```
